The Project Gutenberg eBook of Lily's birthday
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Lily's birthday

Author: Madeline Leslie

Release date: May 20, 2024 [eBook #73659]

Language: English

Original publication: Boston: Graves & Young, 1867


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LILY'S BIRTHDAY ***

Transcriber's note: Unusual and inconsistent spelling is as printed.

[Illustration: AUNT HATTIE'S LIBRARY]



                           Lily's Birthday.


                                 BY

                             AUNT HATTIE

                         _[MADELINE LESLIE]_

               AUTHOR OF THE "BROOKSIDE SERIES," ETC.



           _"Be kindly affectioned one to another."—PAUL_



                               BOSTON:
                     PUBLISHED BY GRAVES & YOUNG
                            24 CORNHILL.



      Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, by
                          REV. A. R. BAKER,
    In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of
                           Massachusetts.



                   ROCKWELL & ROLLINS, STEREOTYPERS,
                         122 Washington Street.



                                  To

           NELLIE, ROLAND COTTON, ANNIE, AND FULLER APPLETON,

                    CHILDREN OF MY BELOVED NEPHEW,

                  THE REV. JOHN COTTON SMITH, D.D.,

           THESE SMALL VOLUMES ARE AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED,

                        WITH THE EARNEST PRAYER

        THAT THEIR LIVES MAY PROVE THEM TO BE LAMBS IN THE FOLD

                         OF THE GREAT AND GOOD

                         _Shepherd of Israel._



                                CONTENTS.


 CHAPTER I. THE BIRTHDAY

 CHAPTER II. LILY'S CITY HOME

 CHAPTER III. THE TEA-PARTY

 CHAPTER IV. MAMMA'S DRIVE

 CHAPTER V. LILY'S COUSIN STUART

 CHAPTER VI. COUSIN STUART'S STORY

 CHAPTER VII. BILLY'S CLEAN FACE

 CHAPTER VIII. THE AUGUST TREE



                           LILY'S BIRTHDAY.

CHAPTER I.

THE BIRTHDAY.

IT was cold weather; but the day was bright and beautiful. Baby Lily in
her warm bed rubbed her eyes, and tried to wake herself up. She knew
something pleasant was going to happen; but for a minute or two she
couldn't recollect what it was, and lay digging into her sleepy eyes
with her tiny, dimpled hand, when a soft voice across the chamber,
whispered—

"Baby Lily! Baby Lily! Wake up! Wake up! It's your birthday!"

"Oh, yes, Helen!" cried the child, starting up. "So it is!"

Helen rose from her couch and, walking softly across the chamber,
kissed her sister four times.

"Aren't you glad, you little darling, that the day has come; and wont
we have a splendid time at your birthday party?"

Baby Lily's eyes sparkled,—I wish you could have seen them,—and her
cheeks grew such a pretty pink, you would have thought the roses had
been kissing them. It was still very early; but Lily was impatient for
the pleasures of the day to begin; so she slipped down the side of the
bed, saying,—

"Sarah! Sarah! Can't I go downstairs? I want to. Oh, I'm so glad my
birthday has come!"

"I'm afraid you'll wake baby brother, pet."

"Oh," exclaimed Helen, "I heard him cooing long ago."

So Sarah reached from the chair at the side of the bed a pair of
stockings, and oh, such tiny shoes! And, having arrayed her little
charge in them, sent her down to the nursery to be dressed, while she
herself took another nap.

Helen caught up her clothes and pattered down after her sister.
I suppose if you had caught a glimpse of Helen in her long white
nightdress, and her curls floating like a veil about her, you would
have thought her smiles were on account of the expected party; but they
were not. They were always there. Indeed, I can't imagine how her mouth
would have looked without smiles. It was just like a fresh sunbeam to
see her come dancing into the room.

The nursery was very warm and pleasant, for there was a bright fire
crackling and blazing away in the grate, as if it knew that this was a
birthday, and meant to help celebrate it.

Margery sat in a low chair before the fire with Master Berty, a stout
urchin of six months, springing and jumping in her arms.

Both Helen and Lily made their first addresses to the family pet,
who cooed out his welcome in the very sweetest tones you ever heard.
Certainly his little sisters thought no music was ever half so sweet.
And there they stood bowing and catchooing, and laughing, while baby,
every time Helen came near enough, would make a dive at her curls. It
would have done you good to have seen them.

All this while Margery was laughing and enjoying the fun; but now, she
tried to hurry them with their dressing.

"Come, Miss Helen," she urged, "if you play with baby any longer,
you'll never be in season for breakfast. Baby Lily, bring me your
skirt, and let me fasten it."

In one minute there was a dreadful scream. Margery tried to button the
waist with her arm around the baby, when he gave a sudden spring, and
over he went on to the rug, making a dreadful bump on his forehead, and
cheek.

Poor Margery had scarcely time to catch him up before mamma rushed from
the chamber adjoining, and grandma from her room, frightened almost out
of their senses, for fear he had fallen into the fire.

Baby cried dreadfully, and held his breath; and all the while the bump
was growing larger and more red, until at last he was so tired he was
glad to lay his poor aching head on his mamma's shoulder to rest. But
even here, he couldn't forget, and turned his red, swollen eyes from
one to another, with such an expression, that they pitied him very,
very much.

Little Lily forgot that it was her birthday, and her eyes were full of
tears; and her lip quivered so that she could scarcely speak.

Surely I don't know who dressed the children, for everybody was so
confused by the sad accident, and so sorry for Master Berty, that they
could think of nothing else; so the sun went on rising higher and
higher, until he could peep into the nursery windows; and then Helen
laughed softly as she said,—

"O Lily! Aren't you glad it's going to be a pleasant day?"

In a few minutes the room was all quiet; for mamma, who was still weak
from her recent illness, had gone back to bed, and papa was trying
to obey the doctor's directions, and get all the rest he could. The
children were very happy when baby so far forgot his trouble that he
could play again. Helen let him pull her curls, exclaiming, "So you
shall, darling; you shall pull Helen as much as you want to."

He had just got his little fingers nicely tangled in the closely
curling locks, and was cooing out his delight, when there was another
surprise; but this time it was a pleasant one, for the door softly
opened, and there stood Aunt Hatty.

Helen flew to meet her, followed by Russell, who asked,—

"Where's Frankie,—hasn't he come?"

And then Frankie, who had been hiding behind the door, burst in, and
was as warmly welcomed as his mother had been.

The new comers had been travelling all night, and were very tired; but
they dearly loved these friends, and they were both glad that they had
come in season for the birthday party.



CHAPTER II.

LILY'S CITY HOME.

BEFORE I go on to relate what happened on that pleasant day, I must
tell you some things about baby Lily and her home.

She did not always live in the city, though her father was Rector of
a large and wealthy parish there. In the summer they went a long way
into the country, down near the sea-side, where the children could fill
their lungs with nice, fresh air, and where the father and mother could
gain new strength for the performance of their arduous duties. Some
time I may tell you of the delights of their country home; but now I
will say that the parsonage or rectory was a large, commodious mansion,
joined to the rear end of the church.

The channel, the pulpit, and the reading desk were in a deep, wide
recess. There were quaint, old-fashioned rooms in the house, formed
out of the space at the side of the chancel. One of these rooms on
the lower floor, the pastor occupied for his study. It had a high
Gothic window, with small, diamond panes of glass; and the walls were
wholly lined with cases containing books. There were large, elegantly
bound volumes on the lower shelves; then on the others, the books were
smaller and smaller to the very top shelf, which could only be reached
by a pair of high steps.

There was one large bust, too, which the children often gazed at,
because it looked so peaceful and smiling. This was a bust of their
great grandfather, an eminent divine, and teacher of theology.

But I cannot stop to tell you all the wonders of the study, nor to
describe the Rector, who sat long hours at the table in the centre
of the room, poring over the old-fashioned volumes, and writing the
sermons which he prayed God might help to fit his beloved people for
heaven. I must go on to tell you about the chamber over the study,
which was called the church-room. This was lighted by a continuation of
the same window with its funny little panes of glass, through which the
sunlight streamed in so gloriously.

The room in the third story over this was devoted to the children, for
their toys; and well it was filled with all sorts, from tin horses
harnessed in pedlers' carts, to the family of Noah just walking out of
the ark.

Besides the pastor and his wife, there belonged to the family four
children,—Helen, Russell, Lily, and baby Herbert.

There had been another loved one, the first-born, the dearest treasure
known on earth.

   "Lovely as an angel's dream,
    Her chestnut locks with sunlight all agleam,
    Her holy eyes with heaven in their beam."

    *     *     *     *     *     *

   "But when the elder Shepherd of the fold
    Came, covered with the storm, and pale and cold,
    And begged for one of the sweet lambs to hold,
    The parents knelt to pray! Is it thy will?
    Ah, how they wept at the last word 'farewell!'"

As I told you in the first chapter, the birthday dawned clear and
bright. The children had scarcely finished their breakfast when there
was a ring at the door; and who should it be, but Miss Norton; with a
box for baby Lily.

This little girl now began to realize that birthdays were delightful.
Her violet eyes opened wider and wider as Sarah untied the box, and
took from it a beautiful plated tea-set, shining like silver.

"Oh," exclaimed Russell, "wont we have nice times now? Mamma, can't we
have our tea-party right away?"

Mamma smiled. "Yes, darling," she said, "as soon as Margery has cleared
the room."

At this moment Sarah came in, bringing baby brother fresh from his
bath, and all the children forgot their play in their eagerness to get
a kiss. Baby jumped, and cooed, and laughed such funny little laughs,
drawing in his breath, and then stopping to catch Helen's curls, as she
pressed closer to him.

"Come, Frankie," cried Russell at last, "let's go and set the table
now."

"I think real, live babies are better than all the tea-parties in the
world," answered Frank, warmly. "Oh, I love to hear them laugh!"

There was a low table in the nursery, on which the little folks used
to take their supper before they were old enough to dine with papa and
mamma. This was now covered with wooden horses and sheep; and Frankie
helped to pack the animals away in the box where they belonged.

"Please, Sarah," asked Russell, "may we have a table-cover?"

"Certainly, dear," and she gave him one from the drawer.

Before the cups and saucers and plates were arranged in order on the
pretty tray, there was another ring, followed by the sound of merry
voices in the hall.

"It's Aunt Mary!" was the joyful shout. "It's Aunt Mary, with Ida and
Rose."

"Yes, it is," repeated Russell, running to the window, "and there's Pat
bringing a great bundle from the carriage."

The door opened, and there stood Aunt Mary with her arms full of
parcels, and behind her, Ida and Rose, looking as smiling as the month
of June.

"Look, look, see Lily's new tea-set!"

But Aunt Mary could see nothing till she had laid the bundles carefully
on the table. Then she stooped to give baby a kiss; after which, she
was ready to attend to the children.



CHAPTER III.

THE TEA-PARTY.

"PUT the waiter that side," said Sarah. "Lily must sit there, and pour
out the tea, because it's her birthday."

Russell was watching the untying of the parcels Aunt Mary had brought,
and clapped his hands when he saw the nice light cakes and the
cream-colored candy.

Sarah well understood how to prevent unkindness between the children,
and so she superintended the distribution of the feast, while the
little girl sat in state behind the tiny tray, mixing sugar, cream, and
water in the pretty cups.

At last every one was served; and then what pleasant talk, what shouts
of mirth, what merry peals of laughter echoed through the room! Mamma,
grandma, Aunt Mary, and Aunt Hatty laughed, and enjoyed the feast
almost as well as the children did. Mammas always do enjoy their
children's sports, when the little ones are generous, kind, and loving,
as these children were.

I wish I were an artist, and could paint the scene as it occurred. I
think you would say, as Aunt Hatty did, that there never were brighter,
happier faces than surrounded that little table; and there never were
friends more sympathizing than those who witnessed the joy of the merry
party.

"Sarah," called out Russell at last, "Rose has eaten all her cake. May
I give her some of mine?"

"There is plenty more. Why don't you eat your own? Here, Rose, pass me
your plate. Helen, what are you and Ida laughing about? Don't you want
another piece of cake, Lily?"

Every plate was held up now to be refilled; and then baby Lily had as
much as she could do to pour coffee, as she called it, for all her
guests. She looked very serious as she set about her task, putting in a
little more sugar, a little more milk; then stirring and tasting, to be
sure it was right; while Helen and Ida, as the oldest of the company,
tried hard to look sober, too, so as not to confuse the anxious miss.

"Hurrah! We've done!" shouted Russell, rising and clapping his hands.
"Now let's have some fun!"

"Oh, look at baby?" exclaimed Helen. "See how he wants to play, too.
Oh, I wish he had sat at the table with us!"

"I rather think he would have wanted all the cups," said mamma,
smiling. "You know he has never been into society, and would not
understand how to conduct with propriety at dinner-parties."

"Isn't he a darling?" asked Helen, as baby shouted, and cooed his
delight at having her near him.

"I think babies are splendid," rejoined Frankie, coming forward for a
share of notice from the pet.

"They are household angels," murmured Aunt Hatty, softly.

Presently there was a great shout of laughter, in the midst of which
Russell walked into the room, bowing. "This is the bride of the
church," he said, introducing his sister, whom he had arrayed in a
long, white skirt. "I hope you will excuse the black on her dress,
because her husband has just died."

Baby Lily walked forward with great dignity, bowing and smiling, while
her brother, who had once more disappeared, soon returned, and made
every one shout again, as he promenaded the room dressed in a black
gown, and gave out notice of a service in the church in the evening.

At last the door-bell rung, and Pat sent up word that the carriage was
ready to take Aunt Mary and the children home.

"How quick the morning has gone!" exclaimed Ida. "I thought we should
have a good deal longer to stay."

"So I did," said Rose, shaking back her heavy curls, and getting ready
to go.

Aunt Mary hurried to array her young charge for the ride, Helen and
Frank helping to find hats, furs, and gloves.

Lily, as directed by mamma, sent her thanks to Aunt Josephine for
letting her cousins come, and for the present of cake, and then the
good-by kisses were given, Russell shouting after them as they went
downstairs,—

"Haven't we had nice fun?"

"And not one word of unkindness or quarrelling. That is the reason
you have all enjoyed yourselves so thoroughly," suggested Aunt Hatty,
kissing the merry boy.



CHAPTER IV.

MAMMA'S DRIVE.

IN the afternoon, just as mamma had finished her dinner, a beautiful
carriage with two prancing horses drove up to the door. A lady had
called to take her out for a drive in the park.

Mamma hesitated. She was timid about riding; and then it was Lily's
birthday, and there were so many little ones in the nursery.

But papa came from the study, and ended the matter by saying,—

"You must go, my dear. The bracing air will do you good."

While she was absent, the children had various games. Sometimes they
dressed up, and played they were visitors from the country. Helen was
the lady of the house, and Frank and Russell made her a call; while
Lily sat in a low chair, and rocked her dolly; and then they brought in
the rocking-horse, and played go a journey.

By and by they grew tired, and were contented to sit quietly on the
sofa, while Aunt Hatty told them a story. She had only just finished,
when mamma returned, not refreshed, but pale and weary.

"What has happened?" asked Sarah, eagerly.

"Such a scene as I have witnessed!" exclaimed mamma, falling back in a
chair quite exhausted. "I was so glad I didn't take Lily."

"Please, mamma, tell us about it," asked Helen.

"In the first place," began mamma, "Mrs. Groves' horses were perfectly
furious, and would not allow anything to pass them. I grew very
nervous, when all at once there was a crashing of wheels; and there we
were locked in with a great team.

"I imagined Mrs. Groves wished herself anywhere but riding with a
nervous woman, and I'm sure I was sorry that I had consented to go. We
backed, and the teamster backed, ha'ing and geeing lustily, and at last
we were relieved.

"Now, I thought, we shall have a clear space; and I'll try to be brave.
But presently we heard a great outcry and shouting behind us.

"'Stop them! Oh, stop them!'

"I looked from the window, and saw everybody running; then they all
began to press to the sides of the street, and drivers urged their
horses forward at their utmost speed.

"'What is it, James?' screamed Mrs. Groves through the speaking-trumpet.

"'It is horses running away, ma'am,' he answered back.

"'Stop, then; and we'll get out.'

"'You'd be smashed entirely, ma'am, in the crowd.'

"Just at this moment, and when I was trembling all over, a pair of
magnificent horses dashed past, in an open barouche; and there,
standing in it, with her hands stretched out in supplication, was a
dear little girl just about as old as Lily. As they rushed past, I
heard her say,—

"'Oh, do stop them! Do please stop them!'

"I couldn't help it; I just put my handkerchief to my face, and had a
good cry."

"Did the little girl pray to God to make the horses stop running?"
faltered Lily, her lip quivering as she winked back her tears.

"I don't know, darling, but she looked like a child who had been taught
to pray."

"I would pray for her, mamma, I would."

"My love, I did pray that the good God might spare her life; and I
thanked him that my own darlings were not in such danger."

"Was she killed then?" asked Helen, her eyes growing very large.

"No, dear. Mrs. Groves told James to drive on as fast as he could. I
forgot all about my own fright, in my anxiety to find out whether the
poor little child was saved."

"Why didn't somebody stop the horses, mamma?"

"They did try again and again, Helen; but with no success. Presently
another carriage dashed by, the driver whipping the horse to his utmost
speed. I saw a poor man leaning back on the seat, looking very pale,
while the blood was oozing from a wound on his head. The crowd screamed
out that it was the father of the little girl who had been thrown from
the barouche. A gentleman picked him up and wanted to do something for
him; but he only pointed up the street, and gasped out,—

"'My child!'"

Poor Lily could keep back her tears no longer, and laying her head in
Sarah's lap began to sob.

"Lily," said her mamma, "look up, and hear me finish the story.

"We followed the other carriages until we came to a great crowd of
policemen, who were standing about the barouche. The brave little girl
had been taken out as soon as the horses were stopped, and there she
was in her father's arms. Oh, how he strained her to his breast, as he
said,—

"'Thank God! She is spared to me!'"

"Did his head bleed then, mamma?"

"Yes, Helen; but he did not seem to think of himself at all. Tears were
running down the cheeks of many who stood by."

"How did they get home, mamma?"

"The gentleman who picked up the father offered to take them to their
house, and the policemen took care of the horses till the driver came
up."

"I guess the little girl will say a good many prayers to God to-night,"
exclaimed Lily, looking up with a brightening face.



CHAPTER V.

LILY'S COUSIN STUART.

A FEW DAYS after this, dear little Lily came to dinner with two bright
red spots on her cheeks. She did not seem inclined to talk as usual;
but sat very quiet, waiting for Maria to pass her plate. With the
dessert there was some pineapple, and this Lily thought very nice. I
suppose she must have eaten too much, for in an hour or two she grew
quite sick, and lay on the sofa, her poor head being very hot and
throbbing with pain.

Mamma had gone out to see a sick friend, and Sarah was herself ill
in bed; but Aunt Hatty took the dear child in her arms, and tried to
soothe her to sleep. She lay very quiet for a time, listening to the
lullaby, and Aunt Hatty thought her asleep; but presently she opened
her eyes with a pleasant smile, saying,—

"Don't go away! I want you to stay here two-free weeks."

This was the commencement of a long sickness. When the doctor came the
next morning, he said Lily had the scarlet fever.

During all the days and nights the little sufferer was in bed, she was
very patient; but her feeble moans, as she lay half unconscious, made
mamma's heart ache sadly.

When Lily was better, Helen was taken down with a similar attack.

On the whole, it was a trying winter for the family, though from the
parish they received a vast amount of sympathy and kindness.

[Illustration]

There was one circumstance which was regarded by all as a blessing.
This was that dear Cousin Stuart, who had been absent for many years,
had returned, and was now settled in business near them.

Stuart was fond of all children, but particularly so of these dear
ones. Scarcely a day passed without a call upon his favorites. When
his step was heard on the stairs, or his voice speaking to papa in the
hall, there was an immediate rush from the nursery and a scream of
delight to welcome him.

Even baby Herbert crowed out his pleasure, holding out his dimpled arms
to be taken. Indeed, he would willingly stay with no one else while his
Cousin Stuart was in sight.

It was amusing to witness the scrambling for places when he took a
seat. Helen and Lily were in his lap, Russell leaning on his knee,
while Ida and Rose, who were often present, crowded as closely as
possible, each clamoring to be heard.

"Please tell us a story."

"We're all ready, Cousin Stuart."

"Please have something funny," said Russell, his eyes twinkling.

Stuart had some funny stories, which he told once in a while; and some
funny songs, which he sang; but he loved best to tell of good children
in the Bible,—of Joseph, and Samuel, and Ruth, and Esther,—but more
than all of the child Jesus, who never had committed a sin.

In all his travels, Stuart sought out children, and tried to do them
good. He used to visit Sabbath schools, and when the boys and girls
were through with their lessons, he would tell them of the Saviour's
love; and urge them to choose him for their Friend.

Perhaps you would like to hear one of Stuart's stories. Well, I will
tell you one.

It was a stormy evening during Easter; but the bright fire made the
nursery look very pleasant. Margery sat near the grate, with Berty
sound asleep on her knees; but Margery liked to hear stories as well as
the children; so she sat there very still, with one of baby's feet in
her hand.

Just opposite nurse, the lounge was drawn up, and there was Stuart with
Lily snuggled down against his breast. Helen sat holding her cousin's
hand, her curls floating over his shoulder, while her face was all
smiles and expectation. Russell occupied a stool pushed up to Stuart's
feet, so that one arm rested lovingly on his cousin's knee.

In the corner close by baby, Grandma Rawson sat in the easy-chair, her
pale face, framed in beautiful white curls, looking very sweet and
smiling.

Mamma was passing by the door, and stopped to view the pleasant scene
within the room. She watched the dear children with their eyes fixed so
eagerly on Stuart's face, and a keen pang of sorrow shot for one moment
through her heart as she missed one precious lamb from the fold.

"How Stuart would have loved her!" she murmured, and with a sigh she
passed on.



CHAPTER VI.

COUSIN STUART'S STORY.

"RUSSELL," Stuart began, "do you remember telling Sarah yesterday
morning that you didn't want your face washed,—it was no use? I'm going
to tell you a true story about a boy who had his face washed, and what
happened in consequence.

"Early last fall, on Sabbath morning, one of the teachers of our
mission school was walking to St. Mary's Church, when she met a poor
boy, who was rubbing his fist into his eyes. He had been crying, and
rubbing his tears with his dirty hand had made his face look very badly
indeed. But the lady, whose name was Allen, pitied him, and so she
resolved to try and make him feel better.

"'Good morning, young friend,' she said, cheerfully. 'Are you taking a
walk?'

"He looked at her, but did not answer.

"She held out her hand, smiling. 'Will you come with me to Sunday
school?' she asked.

"Billy thought she looked very pleasant, so he nodded his assent, and
they walked along. By and by they arrived at St. Mary's. Behind the
church is a room for the mission school; and there Miss Allen led her
young charge. I don't think you can guess what was the first lesson she
gave him."

"About Adam and Eve in the garden," said Helen.

"No, 'bout God making the monkeys," exclaimed Russell.

"I guess she told him about the little baby in the manger," lisped Lily.

"No, none of these. She took him into a bath-room, where there were
bowls with water flowing into them, and plenty of soap and clean towels
at hand. There was a woman here, with her bonnet off, her sleeves
rolled up to her elbows, and a wide apron buttoned over her dress.

"She had just finished scrubbing one little fellow, and was waiting for
another, as Miss Allen came in.

"'Oh, dear!' she exclaimed, as she saw Billy's face. 'Oh, what a sight!'

"She laughed as she took down from a nail a small mirror, and held it
before the wondering boy.

"'Look sharp!' she exclaimed, good-humoredly, 'or you wont know
yourself next time.' Then she turned to Miss Allen and said, 'There's
one more jacket; shall I put it on him?'

"'Yes, and then send him to my class.'

"Poor Billy stood ready to cry as she left; but he had other things to
attend to, for the woman turned a faucet, and the hot water began to
pour into the boat-shaped tub; then, from another faucet, cold water,
until by thrusting in her finger she found it was just right.

"Before he knew what she was about, Billy found himself stripped of his
soiled, ragged clothes, and seated in the bath.

"Then began the scrubbing. It was evident Mrs. Varney was used to the
business, and didn't mind a little spitting and spluttering when the
soap got into the eyes and mouth. She rubbed on the soap wherever there
was need of it, and then scrubbed with a vengeance.

"When his head and face and neck and ears were finished, Billy began to
like it. It was a new and delightful feeling to sit there, and have the
tepid water all around him. He thought Sunday school a tip-top thing,
and wondered he had not heard of it before.

"Mrs. Varney generally talked all the time she was at work. You may be
sure, she exclaimed a good deal when she saw a great red ridge across
Billy's shoulders, and again when she saw his black feet.

"'Say, Billy,' she cried, 'were you ever washed in your life?'

"'No,' was the meek reply. 'I never know'd how good it felt; and then
we don't have these things,' touching the tub, 'where I live.'

"By and by the boy was on his feet again, his face shining, and as
clean as soap and water could make it. His eyes had done smarting long
before this, and twinkled like two stars. His hair, which had been in
one solid mat of tangled curls, was nicely combed, and lay, not smooth
indeed, but in fine ringlets all over his head.

"Mrs. Varney was much pleased, and she stooped down and gave him a
hearty kiss.

"'There, Billy,' she exclaimed, in a triumphant tone, again holding the
mirror before him, 'look there, and tell me who that is, if you can; I
guess you never see that boy afore.'

"Billy's eyes opened wider and wider. He looked at the clean white face
and sparkling orbs with delight; but he did not feel at all acquainted
with those features. Then he gazed down on his new jacket and laughed.

"Mrs. Varney laughed, too; but she knew by this time Miss Allen would
be expecting her scholar; so she said, 'Come, I'll show you the way.'"



CHAPTER VII.

BILLY'S CLEAN FACE.

I CAN'T tell you how surprised Miss Allen was, when she found this was
really Billy. She seated him among the scholars, by her side, and then
gave him his second lesson.

"This was the story of the Saviour's love to little children. Billy sat
with parted lips, and listened as if for his life.

"But I must hasten to tell you how the poor boy, after school was
dismissed, found himself near his own home. He lived in what is called
a tenement house, and in the one entry where he lodged there were, only
think of it, ninety persons!

"On the Sabbath the men, and women too, were mostly out of doors,
lounging in the dirty court. Now, as Billy entered it, the boys and
girls stared at him in some surprise, thinking, of course, that he was
a stranger.

"'Hollo!' at last shouted one fellow, 'it's our Bill! Look at him. What
a prig! Oh! Oh!' And he laughed boisterously.

"Billy smiled quietly to himself, and, making his way through the door,
started to run upstairs, when a woman called out,—

"'Who are ye after, if I may be so bold?'

"'It's Billy Foster, no mistake,' said another, 'but I can't tell what
he's been doing to himself.'

"Billy's mother started to her feet when he entered. She stared at him
with open mouth, not daring to speak until he said, laughing,—

"'Don't you know me, mother?'

"'And what has happened ye, Bill? Sure it's like a miracle ye are.'

"The boy eagerly related what had occurred, adding that he had promised
to put aside his new jacket for Sunday wear.

"'Wait till I see will yer father know his own son,' she said; eagerly;
'sure I can't believe my own eyes.'

"Mr. Foster agreed with his wife, that it was little short of a
miracle; but the next day the mother said,—

"'Feth, if soap and wather can do it for Billy, it can for Jack.' So
she set to work, and washed and scrubbed all her children, greatly to
the astonishment of the neighbors.

"'Sure and washing is a good thing,' she said to her husband, 'I'll be
trying it on myself;' which she did. Then she argued that the room was
not clean enough for such tidy looking folks; and when Mr. Foster came
home at night from his wood-sawing, he saw her scouring the floor on
her knees, the chairs being piled up on the bed.

"First her neighbor on the right, and then the neighbor on her left,
imitated her example, until to the astonishment of the landlord, who
came weekly for his rent, there was a gradual but thorough renovation
of the place.

"It was astonishing how much more these poor people respected
themselves, now that their persons and clothes and rooms were clean.
Soon they began to ask themselves whether they, too, could not go to
the mission school where Billy had been treated so kindly.

"All this was not done at once. It required a good deal of arguing
on the part of Mrs. Foster to induce some of her lazy neighbors to
commence a reformation, and Billy was called in from his play a great
many times to describe the bath-room, the good nature of Mrs. Varney,
and the kindness of the pretty lady in the school, before they would
consent to follow so good an example.

"Miss Allen had thought often of Billy, and resolved to visit him in
his home, not dreaming of all the changes wrought there by the sight of
his clean, fresh face.

"She set out early Sunday morning, and was delighted to find Billy's
two brothers and one sister ready to accompany her to the school.

"I cannot stop to tell you all the particulars," said Cousin Stuart,
smiling, "for Lily is growing very sleepy; but I will say that Billy's
clean face was the means of leading thirty persons, men, women, and
children, to the mission school, where they learned to love the
Saviour."

"That's a nice story," exclaimed Helen, "I wish mamma had heard it."

"I think so, too," said grandma. "I should like to see Billy."



CHAPTER VIII.

THE AUGUST TREE.

WHEN the buds began to swell, the crocuses to push their bright-colored
blossoms out of the ground, and the golden robins to sing, mamma said
it was time for the little ones to be in the country. The Rector did
not say nay, though he must stay a good many weeks longer to take care
of his parish.

The children began to dance and clap their hands at the idea of going
to the farm where they always had such a happy time, where there was
plenty of nice milk and cream, and, in the summer, fruit and berries in
abundance.

Mamma and Sarah were often now in earnest consultation about the
packing. There were calls to make, too, and shopping for the summer; so
the month of May was a busy time at the rectory, you may be sure.

Early in June, when the roses were in bloom, and the peach trees were
garlanded with their beautiful blossoms, the transit was made, and one
evening after a very tedious journey of over two hundred miles, our
travellers found themselves in their summer home by the sea.

And now the happy days commenced, and life seemed one long dream of
innocent enjoyment.

Aunt Josephine, with Ida, Rose, Forrest, and baby, came a few days
later, then grandma, Russell, and Aunt Mary, so that there was a large
company to be merry with. And then there was the pleasure of expecting
the two papas, who came for a day or two now and then.

On the lawn in front of the spacious mansion, there was a game of
croquet, which in fine weather occupied both old and young for many an
hour; while for the little ones a long, unfinished hall over the shed
was the scene of daily frolics.

Russell, who had declared himself a candidate for orders, built a
pulpit at one end, which was really quite an ingenious affair. In this,
he officiated as minister nearly every day in the week. Here, too, they
kept store, played "come and see," or rolled hoop in rainy weather.

Out of doors, the chickens, the lambs, and the pony were unfailing
sources of delight. Star, indeed, was a very important character. He
was of a light sorrel color, with a white spot in his forehead, from
which he received his name. The pony was the especial property of
Master Forrest, a lad of twelve, the oldest of all the cousins.

Uncle George, his papa, thought him too old to spend all his summer
in play, so he bought a working-cart for Star, and sent the boy out
occasionally to labor with the hired men.

There was also a pony carriage, in which four of the cousins rode
regularly to church.

I suppose some little girls and boys will inquire whether Helen, Ida,
and Forrest studied any in those bright days. To be sure they did,
though the lessons were short. When the trunks were packed, Sarah put
in Helen's books, "just so that she sha'n't forget all she knows,"
mamma said.

In the winter she had been studying very hard, and was getting on
finely. Now she had a short lesson in geography, history, and French;
and Ida recited with her.

Forrest recited, too, to his mamma; but his delight was to get a new
book, when he would seat himself in the midst of the children and
devour it. They might talk, and laugh, and sing, and shout; but he
heard nothing.

Forrest was a manly boy, rather grave and reserved, quite unlike his
Cousin Russell, who was always ready for any kind of fun.

[Illustration: THE AUGUST TREE.]

I wish my little readers could see Lily and Rose, and how merrily the
days passed with them; or that I had time to tell you more of Russell
and Berty, at their boyish plays in the hall. But I must hasten to give
you an account of an August tree, and the celebration that accompanied
it.

The little folks—there were nine in all—had been very good through the
long warm days, and the two mammas were quite willing to afford them
any reasonable pleasure.

So, when, one morning, Russell said, "Oh, I wish it was Christmas!"

And Helen answered, "We can have an August tree, as well as a Christmas
tree."

A ready consent was given to her earnest request.

The plan was at last arranged; a beautiful spruce tree brought from the
woods; and then Aunt Josey wrote tiny notes inviting the guests.

There were the farmer and his wife and family, the carpenter and the
painter, with their families, all dependents of the great house; each
must come to the August tree, have his or her present, and stay to the
big supper.

What a busy time that was, and how earnestly the children consulted in
regard to suitable gifts, and the decorations of their tree! In the
kitchen what a clatter of dishes and of tongues, beating of eggs and
sugar! Russell, who seemed to be everywhere, ran at last to announce
the fact that the cake had come out of the oven and smelled real good.

The day so long and eagerly anticipated came at last, and at an early
hour the children's voices rung through the house.

The guests had all signified their pleasure at the invitation, and
their resolution to be "on hand." The celebration was to be in the
afternoon; but the little folks had enough to do to keep themselves
busy till about eleven. After this, the hours lagged terribly. Russell
thought the clock had stopped, and Helen said, earnestly,—

"I do wish two o'clock would come."

Frank Follen, the farmer's boy, came first, dressed in his Sunday suit,
with his face scrubbed till it shone. Then Mr. Pratt, the carpenter,
made his appearance, followed by his entire family; and after this, not
ten minutes elapsed before every guest had been ushered into his or her
seat.

The tree having been greatly admired, the company were requested to go
downstairs and stand under the window.

This made a good deal of laugh; even the Rector was observed to
grow quite red in the face; but, under Master Russell's excellent
management, the request was carried out.

Ida and Helen then took the gift from the tree, called out the name of
the one to receive it, and began to let it down by a cord tied to a
basket.

This part of the entertainment consumed nearly an hour, but was enjoyed
amazingly.

Mr. Follen handled the little necktie, which fell to him, as daintily
as if it had been china, saying with a laugh,—

"I shall think a heap of this ere, Miss Helen."

When the presentations were over, the guests were invited to the
dining-room, where the children waited on them.

Everybody had a good time, and were loud in their praises of the August
tree.

At an early hour the children went to bed, weary, it is true, but happy
in the consciousness that they had made others so; while the two papas
and mammas rejoiced that their children so early showed a disposition
to contribute to the comfort of those about them, and especially that
in all their plays they remembered the apostle's injunction, "Be kindly
affectioned one to another."








*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK LILY'S BIRTHDAY ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


